Blog: Best mobile app metrics (#9359)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/product-engineers/mobile-app-metrics.md

---
date: 2024-09-16
title: 25 best mobile app metrics to track
author:
  - lior-neu-ner
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/posthog-marketing/marketing-hog.jpg
featuredImageType: full
category: Engineering
tags:
  - Guides
  - Product metrics
crosspost:
  - Blog
---

## Sign up and onboarding metrics

### 1. App downloads

> **What it is:** The number of times your app has been downloaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**What is it?** The number of times your app has been downloaded.
```

Reviewer: Repeat on others

> **Why it's useful:** Provides a baseline metric for user acquisition and helps measure the effectiveness of marketing campaigns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Why is it useful?** Provides a baseline metric for user acquisition and helps measure the effectiveness of marketing campaigns.
```

Reviewer: Repeat on others

**Questions to ask:**
- How does the number of downloads vary across different platforms (iOS, Android, etc.)?
- Is there a correlation between the number of downloads and user engagement or retention?
- How do different marketing channels impact the number of downloads?

> **Insight type:** [Trend](/docs/product-analytics/trends/overview)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**How to track it:** Send an event to PostHog each time your app is downloaded and track it using a [trend](/docs/product-analytics/trends/overview). Breakdown by `Device Type` or `OS` to see the distribution by platform.
```

I think each one should be more like this – feel free to change this if it isn't right, I just wanted to have an example. It doesn't need to super detailed, but just saying use a trend insight doesn't feel super satisfying.

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1726494646/posthog.com/contents/Screenshot_2024-09-16_at_2.49.24_PM.png"
    imageDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1726494646/posthog.com/contents/Screenshot_2024-09-16_at_2.49.43_PM.png"
    classes="rounded"
    alt="Number of app downloads"
/>

### 2. App bounce rate

**What it is:** The percentage of users who view your home screen but don't view a second screen.

**Why it's useful:** Enables you to learn if your welcome messaging is resonating with news users.

> **Good benchmark:** Below 9% is considered good – [Source](https://contentsquare.com/blog/app-metrics/)

Reviewer: Let's do the sources as footnotes

**Questions to ask:**
- How does the bounce rate correlate with downloads from different marketing channels?
- Are users in specific countries more likely to bounce? How does localization correlate with bounce rate?
- How does the bounce rate vary across different devices and app versions?

> **Insight type:** [Trend](/docs/product-analytics/trends/overview)

Reviewer: Case in point, in this example you presumably have to do a formula to get this metric? We should explain how to do this as succinctly as possible.

- Where are the largest drop-offs in the onboarding funnel before activation?
- How does activation correlate with retention and customer lifetime value?
- How do other external factors like marketing or app performance impact activation?

**Insight type:** [Funnel](/docs/product-analytics/funnels)

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1726495892/posthog.com/contents/Screenshot_2024-09-16_at_3.11.24_PM.png"
    imageDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1726495787/posthog.com/contents/Screenshot_2024-09-16_at_3.09.34_PM.png"
    classes="rounded"
    alt="Activation rate"
/>

### 5. Average time to activation

**What it is:** The average time it takes for a user to reach activation.

**Why it's useful:** Gives you a sense of how long it takes for a user to get value from your app.

**Good benchmark:** Varies depending on the type of app.

**Questions to ask:**
- What are common characteristics of users who take shorter or longer to activate?
- Is there a correlation between the time to activation and churn?
- Is there a correlation between the speed of activation and long-term user retention?

> **Insight type:** [Funnel](/docs/product-analytics/funnels)

Reviewer: There's a "time to conversion" visualization option for funnels
![Screenshot 2024-09-20 at 12 25 26](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/39f49872-79f9-4aff-bf59-adcf2855874f)

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1726496863/posthog.com/contents/Screenshot_2024-09-16_at_3.24.37_PM.png"
    imageDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1726496863/posthog.com/contents/Screenshot_2024-09-16_at_3.24.51_PM.png"
    classes="rounded"
    alt="Average time to activation"
/>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<br />

```

Just add a bit more spacing between sections. It looks a bit crowded without it.

**Insight type:** [Custom survey](/docs/surveys/implementing-custom-surveys) using the [PostHog API](/docs/api/surveys)
<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1726500781/posthog.com/contents/Screenshot_2024-09-16_at_4.32.51_PM.png"
    imageDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1726500705/posthog.com/contents/Screenshot_2024-09-16_at_4.31.28_PM.png"
    classes="rounded"
    alt="NPS score"
/>

### 9. In-app response rate

**What it is:** The percentage of users who respond to your in-app messages, surveys, or review requests.

**Why it's useful:** Indicates how engaged and vested users are with using your app.

**Good benchmark:** 28% for in-app prompts, 13% for in-app surveys – [Source](https://www.businessofapps.com/data/in-app-response-rates/)

**Question to ask:**
- How does the timing and frequency of in-app prompts affect response rates?
- Is there a correlation between response rates and user satisfaction or retention?
- What is the optimal length for in-app surveys to maximize completion rates?

> 

Reviewer: Missing the how to track on this one

- How does user lifetime correlate with lifetime value (LTV)?
- What is the impact of customer support interactions on user lifetime?

**Insight type:** [SQL](/docs/product-analytics/sql)

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1726648872/posthog.com/contents/Screenshot_2024-09-18_at_9.40.16_AM.png"
    imageDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1726648872/posthog.com/contents/Screenshot_2024-09-18_at_9.40.28_AM.png"
    classes="rounded"
    alt="Average time to first purchase"
/>

## Revenue metrics

### 16. Average time to first purchase

**What it is:** The time it takes for users to make their first purchase.

**Why it's useful:** Similar to activation time, it's a strong indication of how long it takes for users to understand your app's core value prop.

**Good benchmark:** Varies depending on the app type.

**Questions to ask:**
- Which marketing channels or user acquisition methods lead to faster first purchases?
- Are there specific in-app events or interactions that typically precede a user's first purchase?
- How does pricing strategy or promotional offers impact the time to first purchase?

> <ProductScreenshot

Reviewer: Switch for 'time to conversion' viz

- What is the impact of customer support interactions on revenue per paying user?

**Insight type:** [Trend with formula mode](/docs/product-analytics/trends/formulas), grouped by month

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1726651534/posthog.com/contents/Screenshot_2024-09-18_at_10.25.02_AM.png"
    imageDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1726651534/posthog.com/contents/Screenshot_2024-09-18_at_10.25.26_AM.png"
    classes="rounded"
    alt="Revenue per paying user"
/>

### 19. In-app purchase conversion rate 

**What it is:** The percentage of users who make an in-app purchase. 

**Why it's useful:** Indicates how appealing your app's premium features are.

**Good benchmark:** Above 2% – [Source](https://www.businessinsider.com/just-2-of-app-installs-lead-to-purchases-2017-2?)

**Questions to ask:** 
- How does the conversion rate vary for different types of in-app purchases? 
- What user behaviors or app interactions correlate with higher conversion rates? 
- How do promotional offers or discounts impact the conversion rate?

> **Good benchmark:** Varies depending on the app type. 

Reviewer: You should add a summary here. I don't want to go hunting for the answer.
